doc/website: add schema monitoring doc (#2896)
ariga/atlas: doc/md/cloud/features/monitoring.mdx

---
title: Schema Monitoring
slug: /cloud/features/schema-monitoring
---

## Drift Detection

Schema migrations on production databases should ideally be automated within CI/CD pipelines, keeping developers from

> needing root access. However, this setup isn't always feasible, leading to **Schema Drift**, where database schemas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
needing root access. However, this setup isn't always the case, leading to **Schema Drift**, where database schemas
```

drift from their intended state, causing inconsistencies and issues.

### Schema Drift
Schema drift is dangerous because it can lead to unexpected behavior in applications, data corruption, and even system outages.
When the actual database schema deviates from the expected schema, queries may fail, data integrity constraints may be violated,

> and application logic may break. This can result in hard-to-debug issues and degraded system performance,
> ultimately affecting the reliability and trustworthiness of your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and application logic may break. Additionally, schema migrations are planned based on the assumption the target
database is in a specific state and may fail and cause unknown side effects.  This can result in hard-to-debug issues and degraded system performance,
ultimately affecting the reliability and stability of your application.
```

> #### Catching Drifts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Detecting Schema Drift
```
"Catch my drift" is cute, but..

> Atlas provides a solution by periodically checking if your deployed database schemas align with their desired state.

Reviewer: atlas enables teams to

> Since direct internet access to databases is uncommon, Atlas allows the use of Atlas Agents within your database's network.

Reviewer: Since most databases are not open to the internet
